>>Once you start asking
questions, you can't stop.
>>You see, good health
makes a lot of sense,
but it doesn't make
a lot of dollars.
And not considering
nutrition seriously,
we've done a terrible
disservice to all these people.
>>Every single person in
the world, every culture,
every language, every country,
every person in the world
knows it.
You are what you eat.
Food does matter.
>>The supermarket.
Symbol of the high standard of
living in this country today.
These products come
from farms and ranches
despite distance and season.
They are the result of a
miraculous agriculture,
maintaining farm-fresh
quality all the way
to your dinner table.
>>How old is your food?
If you think about it, your food
really, in the best of times,
is traveling between 1,500 and
2,000 miles before you get it.
And it's at least a week old.
Which becomes the next question.
How much nutritional
value are you
getting from food that's
at least five days old?
And if you're lucky,
you're getting
maybe 40% of what you need.
>>Nearly every
food that you will
find in the shops in a big
city has been processed.
It has been delayed
to the shops.
Quite often, nutrients have
deteriorated or disappeared
from the food by the time
it gets onto the plate.
>>We, for whatever
reason, decided
we're going to spray everything
with every kind of pesticide,
herbicide, larvicide, fungicide.
We decided we're going to
genetically modify things
we don't know anything about.
>>And one of the major problems
is, of course, the soil
and what we do to the soil
and the air and the water,
and everything we
take in our food.
>>Soil are used, used, and used;
and nutrients are drawn out
of the soils, and the
soils become new deserts.
And that's happening worldwide.
And we do really need to look
at our systems of agriculture,
and we-- what we
are really eating
and how we are producing food.
>>The so-called fertilizer is
made up of three-- mainly three
minerals, NPK: Nitrogen,
Phosphorus, and Potassium.
Well, that's nice.
But the problem is
that the soil requires
approximately 52
different minerals.
So where's the calcium
and the magnesium
and the manganese and the
zinc and the iron and all
of the other things
I can't mention?
They're missing.
But when the soil is
deficient, the plants also
are deficient and weakened,
and they lose their defenses.
And the bugs come
and attack them,
and the disease-- the
fungus and other disease
comes and attacks them.
So now they come crying to
the chemical company and say,
well, our plants are
dying, and they won't grow,
and we have pests.
And of course, the
chemical companies
are terribly happy to sell
them pesticides and fungicides
and growth stimulants and
all kinds of other things.
>>Through his intellect, man
has developed a superiority
over every other
form of animal life.
From his modern chemistry,
biology, and dedicated research
have come thousands of
effective chemicals compounds,
all to help revolutionize
the productivity
of our own agriculture.
>>So what we are
getting, even if we
eat just commercial,
vegetarian food,
we get deficient, toxic food.
Because with all these
pesticides and chemicals
and sprays and all of that,
the food is not healthy.
And it's deficient.
So we can't help but
be deficient and toxic.
>>And then, then we cook it.
And studies show that even if
you lightly steam your food,
you're going to lose the
enzymes that are in it.
>>The simplest
thing is that there
are live enzymes or live
workers inside of foods that
help with your body's
digestion of foods
and the use of the
nutrients that are there.
So raw foods should be a
part of everybody's diet.
>>When you cook food, the immune
system reacts to it as a toxin.
Most people don't know that.
When you cook your food, the
body goes through a process
called digestive leukocytosis
where it starts generating
white cell activity against
the cooked food you've eaten,
presumably because the cooking
process has bastardized
the food structure in a way
that the body cannot recognize,
and so the body is now
treating that food as a toxin.
That's not a good thing for
your body to do to the food
that you're hoping is
going to nourish you.
>>There was a Swiss doctor by
the name of Paul Kouchakoff.
He was the first to
show in the 1930s
that if you ate a diet that
was more than 51% cooked
food, that your body
would react to the food
as if it was being invaded
by a foreign organism.
Dr. Kouchakoff was the
first to demonstrate
that if 51% of your
meals were raw,
that you would have
no leukocytosis
or you would actually have
no white blood cell reaction.
So your immune
system would not be
activated with a false alarm.
Because we're dealing with
so many immune system issues
today, we have to make
sure that at least 51%
of every meal that we have is
raw so that we don't overburden
that already burdened
immune system.
>>How can you build
a building that you
expect to last 100 years if you
put poor building materials in?
Same thing with your body.
How can you expect your body to
last for a long and enjoyable
lifetime if you don't
put the proper building
blocks in there?
Everybody knows we
are what we eat.
If you eat garbage, you're
going to get garbage.
>>Think of it as
chronic malnutrition,
because that's what's going on.
That's why people are tired.
You're not supposed to be
tired in the afternoon.
You're supposed to
be alive and vibrant.
>>This has led people naturally
to discover superfoods
and discover that
certain foods have
an extraordinary quality
of vitamins and minerals
and all kinds of
cofactors and enzymes
and special chemicals that, for
example, will cause us to live
longer, will cause
our skin to be
softer, et cetera, et cetera.
Spirulina was consumed in Mexico
City as the primary protein
source for 5,000 years.
Spirulina is the highest protein
content food in the world.
The Max Planck Institute
discovered that 50% of protein
is destroyed in any food
once you cook the food.
Therefore, superfood,
plant-based protein sources
are going to be a key
food of the future.
Because we can get
all the protein
that we need from those sources.
They've been undamaged
by heat, and they
are completely absorbable.
They can be liquefied easily.
That's what I'm
saying by absorbable.
How much energy do
you think it takes
to turn spirulina into a
liquid and get in your body?
Well, if you put spirulina in
water, it's already liquefied.
You drink it, it will go right
into your cells like that.
But a steak requires a
massive amount of energy
to liquefy it and
make it absorbable
by your digestive system.
>>These superfoods can
confer exceptional properties
to your health and well-being.
>>Cacao beans stack up
on the mineral content
against anything in the world.
It's the highest natural
source of magnesium.
source of chromium.
It's very likely the highest
natural source of iron.
natural source of manganese.
It's one of the highest
contents of zinc.
contents of copper.
All the cofactors needed
for healthy metabolism,
it's in the cacao bean.
It's one of the highest vitamin
C content foods in the world,
but all processed chocolate
has no vitamin C in it,
because heat destroys
vitamin C. It
has the highest
antioxidant content.
That means that if we are really
going to take advantage of what
we learned in nutrition,
that antioxidants protect us
from DNA damage,
viral damage, cancer,
protect us from skin damage,
et cetera, et cetera,
it's either going to be
this and then we eat,
or it's going to be
this and then we eat.
And this right here could
be the most horrid chemical
soup of all time, or it could
be the most extraordinary
superfood of all time.
And it's the same amount of
work to get it into our mounts.
We probably, as a culture,
have got our values inverted.
We'd rather spend money on rent
than we would on the best food
ever.
We'd rather spend money
on a car or a house
than on feeding our children
the greatest superfoods that
have ever been
discovered in the world.
Because we don't know.
It's just a values inversion,
because we just got confused.
We saw some program that
sold us on buying this car,
and suddenly we're buying
that car when really we
should take that money and
invest it into our family's
health by the best food
ever, which is the basis.
>>If I eat a lousy
bread roll every day,
have a cup of tea for
breakfast and a piece of toast,
a sugary drink for mid
morning, a doughnut for lunch,
and take away fried
chicken at night,
I'm going to be
massively deficient
in a whole range of nutrients.
And that's only one day.
So I'm going to need something
in the way of supplement.
So the next day, I eat
salad until it's coming out
of my ears to try
and make up for it.
But I never ever
correct the deficiency
that occurred from
the day before.
There's always going to be a
residual problem somewhere.
So you cannot punish your cells
without having to pay for it
sooner or later.
>>We are lucky.
In the last 100 years,
we went from not
having any vitamin supplements
to having them over the counter
and readily available.
And yet most people don't know
how important vitamins really
are.
And if they take
large enough doses,
they can use them
to prevent illness.
And if they take
large enough doses,
they can use them
to treat illness.
Once again, how can that be?
I didn't hear it on the news.
In fact, on the news,
it said you shouldn't
take too many of those vitamins.
It might not be a good idea.
And yet they don't provide
any evidence of that.
They just say it.
Doctors say, I don't
believe in vitamins.
Well, we're not
going to a shaman.
We're supposed to be
going to a scientist here.
It's not about belief;
it's about facts.
Over the last 23
years, according
to the American Association
of Poison Control Centers,
there have been 10--
a total of 10-- deaths
alleged to be
caused by vitamins.
That's one zero,
10, in 23 years.
That's less than half
a death per year.
And these are
unproven, unverified.
But they are attributed
to vitamin consumption.
We have a nation where the very
thing that will help people
is being presented as
actually dangerous.
There have been
studies that purport
to show that if you take an
extra multivitamin every day
that it's going to hurt you,
and that's just nonsense.
There are studies
that purport to say
that vitamin C will
cause a kidney stone.
Well, I've searched
the medical literature,
and I've asked all
my students to search
the medical literature, and
my colleagues to search it,
and as soon as they
find scientific evidence
of a vitamin C-caused kidney
stone, send me the paper,
send me the reference.
It's been 30 years, and
I've never gotten one.
Now, either everybody's
dumb, or it's a myth.
There's an assumption that
vitamins are basically
like drugs and should
be regulated like drugs.
There's an assumption that if
it's therapeutically valuable,
it must be dangerous,
because drugs are.
So we have been
taught our whole lives
to be consumers, mostly
consumers of modern medicine,
which is pharmaceutical
medicine.
>>What about drugs that
you get by prescription?
>>Well, nowadays, there
are many powerful drugs
that are not safe to take
without a doctor's supervision.
But you can rely upon your
doctor and your pharmacist.
They are both
professionally trained men.
A druggist must have
received training
at an accredited college.
>>A doctor goes
to medical school,
gets a medical education,
practices medicine,
prescribes medicines,
and is called an MD.
Well, let's put nutrition into
that and see how it sounds.
My doctor is a nutritionist
who went to nutritional school,
studied nutrition, and
has a nutritional degree,
and prescribes nutrients.
It sounds very strange.
When we say I went
to that doctor,
it's implicit that the
doctor was a medical doctor.
>>It surprised me
in my clinical years
that nobody was interested
in the patients' diets.
When I spoke to my profs, they
weren't interested in diets.
The patients weren't
interested in diets,
and neither were the hospital.
So diet didn't come into it.
And whenever I mentioned
it, the nutrition,
it was basically
put to the side.
>>I spent time as a student
at the Brigham Hospital
in Boston, which is right
next to Harvard Med.
And even then, back in 1974,
it was a crisis hospital.
There were more
doctors than patients.
It was really a grim place.
And I got a chance
to see, to observe,
and to see the
failure of medicine.
You would see people
like the one woman
I remember with leukemia.
They would give her Jello
and white bread to eat.
Now, I'm not saying that Jello
and white bread cause cancer,
but they sure aren't the cure.
>>26% of patients who are
discharged from hospitals
are more malnourished
than when they went in.
And the reason they go
in in 80% to 90% of cases
is related to their
poor state of nutrition.
>>I started reading papers
by William J. McCormick
and Frederick Robert
Klenner, the pioneers
of using high
doses of vitamin C.
And these gentleman were
curing viral disease
with high doses of
vitamin C in the 1940s.
And then I had a poser.
Well, just a minute here.
Hold on a second.
These are medical doctors,
and they're using vitamins.
And they're using high
doses of vitamins,
and they're getting success.
But I didn't get any
of this in college.
The medical profession, medical
education-- for that matter,
undergraduate education, common
education through magazines
and television-- all
manage to walk around
the rhinoceros in
the living room.
And I saw the rhinoceros
in the living room.
And I said, hey, there's a
rhinoceros in the living room.
And there it was, right in the
center, this body of knowledge,
this whole body of knowledge.
And the more I looked
into it, the more I found.
>>Linus Pauling first
suggested that vitamin C
could be useful against
the common cold.
But this was based on
quite a lot of science
at the time, and not
just a guess or a whim.
Pauling was, of course, a
colleague of Albert Einstein
and quite a large number of
other high-level intellects
at the time.
And he won two Nobel prizes, one
in chemistry and one in peace.
So he's a brilliant man and
should not be taken lightly.
The problem was
that he was getting
in the area of
clinical medicine,
and he didn't have the
qualification in this area.
So he was, at the time,
very open to criticism.
And his suggestion
of vitamin C would
have an effect on the
common cold was boo
hooed by the medical profession.
And I must stay that the
medical profession is not always
that scientific
and clear-thinking.
>>And the other thing that
we have a problem here,
a public relations
problem with nutrients,
is that one nutrient is
good for too many things.
Vitamin E is good to
fight heart disease.
It's also good to put on burns.
It's also good to
help reduce seizures
in teenagers that are epileptic.
Now, that's pretty diverse.
Vitamin C-- let's see,
antitoxin, antihistamine,
anti-viral, helps
regulate blood sugar,
helps to elevate mood in
people that are depressed.
It's just too good
for too many things.
And I have an answer.
The reason one vitamin
can cure so many illnesses
is because the
deficiency of one vitamin
can cause many illnesses.
There's only about
two dozen nutrients.
And yet in your body, there
are countless thousands
of chemical reactions.
So obviously, anything
that's vitamin mediated,
we can expect that
one vitamin is
going to be involved
in multiple reactions.
This is true with
the minerals as well.
We have an idea that
one drug, one disease.
It's an old medical idea.
One drug, one disease,
the doctrine of specifics.
And that is not
true with nutrition.
>>You cannot heal selectively.
If you truly heal,
everything heals.
If a patient comes, for
instance, not only with cancer
but with high blood pressure
and/or diabetes and maybe
fibromyalgia and
other pains and so on,
all the problems disappear.
You can't heal one disease
and keep two others.
It's impossible.
When the body heals,
it heals everything.
>>You nourish the body,
and then the body fixes it.
When people take
vitamins, the vitamins
don't specifically do it.
They enable the body to do it.
They enable the
body to heal itself.
This is a totally different
way of looking at it.
>>The body has what my
father called its own healing
mechanism.
And he went further,
and he said,
it's the doctor's duty to
activate and reactivate
the body's own
healing mechanism.
And the patients heal.
It doesn't matter what
you call the disease.
>>Not one cell in the human
body is made out of a drug.
Surgery doesn't put
anything into you.
They might put in
something made of plastic.
They might take out
something that's harmful.
But in the end,
cutting into the body
doesn't really make it better.
Giving the body drugs doesn't
really promote health.
So what we need
is a new paradigm.
We need a whole new
way of looking at it.
Boosting health has
not been tried yet.
It's really kind of the
one thing we haven't done.
When nutrients are
tested as therapy,
they use very low doses.
And that's why the
public and physicians
see all these research papers
that show ambiguous results.
One study is published and says
vitamins help a little bit.
Another study is
published that says
vitamins don't help very much.
And you have this
back and forth.
But the problem is because
all of those studies
are low-dose studies.
>>The recommended
daily allowance
is the amount of
a nutrient that's
required by the majority
of the population
to prevent an overt
deficiency disease.
That is, if we give
everybody in Australia
the recommended intake of
vitamin C, 60 milligrams
per day, then we should not
see scurvy in this country.
However, we still see
scurvy in this country.
>>If you are indulging
in a high-stress job,
or if you have a stressful
lifestyle-- you've
got some kids, running a
home, doing a job-- then
the body is going to
be breaking vitamin
c as you're
generating adrenaline.
And this is the link between
stress and heart attacks,
that when you're stressed out,
the body is making adrenaline,
and that is drawing down levels
of vitamin C in the body.
So that's going to
cause a vulnerability
to your cardiovascular system
because of lack of vitamin C.
>>The medical profession
just treat disease.
They don't go back to the
primary causes of a lot
of things, because they can't.
They don't understand what
chemicals come from exercise.
They don't understand
what chemicals come out
of meditation.
They don't understand
what chemicals come out
of your food.
>>Where conventional medicine
misses the boat in a big way
is for long-term, hard to deal
with-- the chronic problems.
And the reason why they miss the
boat with the chronic problems
is because they do nothing
to change the reason why
the patient got the
disease in the first place.
Basically, they treat symptoms.
And if all you do
is treat symptoms,
you're not going to
cure the disease.
What you need to do is
change the root cause.
It took me about two
years of seeing patients
that should already have died
with conventional medicine
with their prognosis.
Their ability to survive
more than just a few months
under traditional clinical
conditions was very limited.
And most of the
patients, if they
would have followed conventional
medicine, would have died.
And after I had been with the
program for a couple of years,
and I see patient after patient
still alive and getting better,
tumors going away, and multiple
sclerosis disappearing,
and arthritis going
away, lupus going away,
all these really
dramatic problems, that's
what really made me
100% fully convinced
that I was in the
right line of work
and that this work really
had something valuable.
>>Cardiovascular disease is
a disease of civilization.
It is a lifestyle disease.
Because we're eating too
much of the wrong thing,
and not enough of
the right thing.
And your grandmother said it,
and her grandmother said it,
and everybody knows it's true.
But instead, it's
fast food, and meat,
and fat, and sugar, and
starch, and processed food
that has few vitamins.
And don't take
vitamin supplements,
because they might hurt you.
Of course, cardiovascular
disease, that's not the risk.
>>I've been saying
for at least 25 years
that cardiovascular
disease is reversible.
Conventional medicine has
claimed for a long time
that it was not reversible.
>>To look at the cure, I think,
tells us something of cause.
Dr. Dean Ornish has
done a really good job
with people who have severe
cardiovascular disease.
And he puts them
on a strict diet,
which is basically
a vegetarian diet.
That means a plant-based
diet, a high fiber diet,
loaded with vitamins
and nutrients
and good things that
grow on the ground,
or at least ground that's
organically attended.
Ornish also has a
new stress reduction.
And these people are
able to arrest or reverse
cardiovascular disease
in a year or two.
The cause of
cardiovascular disease,
therefore, is a failure to
take the vitamins and a failure
to eat right.
The good news is
that even people
with advanced cardiovascular
disease, when they start
taking the nutrients and
they change their diet,
they can arrest it or
reverse it without surgery.
>>What amazed me is that we
have some very smart people.
We have the brightest
and the best wandering
the corridors of our
leading medical institutions
with unlimited
budgets, and they don't
seem to want to finger food
and also the Western lifestyle
as being causative.
>>In fact, about
half of all deaths
are from cardiovascular disease.
And in half of those deaths,
the first symptom is death.
So people can go through
their life for decades
with no symptoms at
all and then drop dead.
And then, of course,
it's too late.
It's too late for a drug.
It's too late for a bypass.
It's too late for the ambulance.
It's too late for resuscitation.
>>If one in every two
and a half people,
if you can picture
such a creature,
are perishing from
cardiovascular problems,
that follows that
society is doing
something fundamentally wrong.
>>The only way to
win is not to play.
And that requires that
they change their life.
>>And yet, what are we doing?
Every year, we're doing
billions of dollars
worth of bypass surgery that
could be totally controlled
just by changing the way
you eat, drink, live.
>>Did I mention it was safer?
Did I mention it was cheaper?
And it works very well.
Therefore, why don't
all cardiologists
recommend this approach?
Well, in fairness, not all
of them have studied it.
And in fairness,
the drug companies
have something to say about it.
Did you notice there was
no drugs in there at all?
There's just, like, no
drug therapy at all.
It's just meditation
and vegetarian diet.
There's no profit in this.
>>One of the big problems
with the drug approach
is the issue of side effects,
adverse drug reactions.
Just for a start, in the UK,
the generally accepted figure
of the number of people
who die each year
as a result of adverse drug
reactions is about 10,000.
To put that in some
sort of perspective,
the number of people who
die from motor car accidents
is about 3,500.
We're all very worried
about motor car accidents.
We don't seem to be so worried
about adverse drug reactions.
The number of people who die as
a result of prostate cancer--
which is of enormous concern,
and we have campaigns
and so on-- is around about
9,000 in this country.
>>The Journal of the
American Medical Association
published papers which indicated
that approximately 106,000
Americans die from
pharmaceutical drugs each year.
Now, these are drugs that
are properly prescribed,
not physician errors.
And these are side effects
that are normally expected.
And these are people who took
the medication as directed.
This doesn't count
overdoses or misuses.
So if 106,000 people die
from normal, expected side
effects of drugs just in America
just in one year, in 23 years,
that's an enormous
number of people.
We're talking millions of people
dead from pharmaceutical drugs.
And in 23 years, 10
allegedly dead from vitamins.
Clearly, we have
to be a lot more
serious about
prescribing nutrition.
And as Roger Williams
said-- the discoverer
of pantothenic acid-- when in
doubt, use nutrition first.
>>The pharmaceutical industry is
in business not to make drugs.
It's in business to make money.
>>Which, I think, is
perfectly reasonable.
They are large,
international corporations,
and they have a duty
to their shareholders.
And that's what corporations
do, is they make money.
>>We live in a
capitalist society.
And I don't happen to
think that's a bad thing.
I think capitalism has
got its great advantages,
and I think it can
be abused roundly,
and we've seen both sides of it.
>>And the problem lies in the
way that they're regulated.
>>I believe that we've got
some very good regulators,
but we've got some very
incompetent regulators as well.
>>The bodies which are
required to both license drugs
and then to see
what happens to them
afterwards are all paid
for by the drug companies.
If you discovered that all the
people who were your hygiene
inspectors for restaurants were
all paid for by the restaurant
owners, you might
be rather suspicious
about their findings.
That's the kind of situation
we have with the drugs,
and that's what needs to change.
They pay the regulators
who are supposed
to be overseeing the drugs.
They pay the academics
who are meant
to be researching the drugs.
And very often, the
trials that they run
will be run by people who
are part of the drug company.
They also put in adverts
into the medical journals.
Most of the medical
journals are supported
by drug company advertising.
>>If we check the medical
literature for the last 65, 75
years, there are
thousands of papers
showing that high doses
of nutrients cure disease.
Now, some of these papers,
you don't get to read.
Because they were published
in journals that, say,
the United States National
Library of Medicine
refuses to index.
Isn't that interesting?
So there are medical
journals out there
that are basically blacklisted.
Whatever is published in
certain medical journals--
such as the Journal of
Orthomolecular Medicine,
of which I am assistant editor--
whatever has been published
in our journal for
the last 41 years--
and that's hundreds of
papers-- none of that
is indexed by the US
National Library of Medicine,
self proclaimed as the largest
medical library on earth.
>>So that what looks like
pure, scientific academics
researching
journals, publishing,
and the whole edifice
of science is actually--
has been turned by
the drug companies
into an arm of their
marketing department.
>>But I'd like to know about
health information that
comes to us from advertising.
>>That's what we call
commercial health information.
It's a mighty big business.
Millions of dollars are spent
to advertise health products
and all kinds of pills
and other medicines
for all kinds of
aches and pains.
You see, sometimes the
advertising can be deceptive.
>>There are 25% of the
TV ads in this country
are drug commercials.
First question-- why?
It's not because they like
spending a lot of money.
It's because while they're
spending hundreds of millions
of dollars on TV time,
they're getting back billions
on people buying those things.
Because people are sick.
They're not feeling well.
>>We need drugs.
There's no question
about that at all.
Pain management, brilliant,
and drugs are necessary.
But there comes this whole
point where we live in a society
where if a little is good,
more must be much better.
So we end up with
now a drug industry
that is trying to find
a drug for everything.
Got a bad attitude?
Have a drug.
Feeling a little depressed?
And the public has
come to rely on it.
The public has come to
accept this whole idea
of taking a pill to fix an ill.
>>What would happen
if everybody ate
lots and lots of fresh,
organic food that
was minimally processed?
I think we'd have an
epidemic of health.
I think the stock
market would tremble.
The drug industry is a
half trillion dollar a year
worldwide conglomerate.
Almost $300 billion
just in North America.
This is really,
really big business.
What would happen if
everybody were well?
There is no money in health.
You see, good health
makes a lot of sense,
but it doesn't make
a lot of dollars.
I think we can have an
ethical drug industry.
I really do.
But I think we've really
got to start sharpening up
the divides between the
regulators and the people
making the drugs.
And this is in absolute
shambles right now.
>>The idea that all drugs are
firmly based in the evidence
and all of the
non-drug treatments
are just a mixture
of hope and delusion
and placebo effect
and charlatans
just doesn't really
stand up to examination.
For example, in order for
a drug to be licensed,
it has to show that it is more
effective than a placebo in two
trials.
This doesn't mean to say
that the drug company can't
do lots of other
trials in which it
doesn't prove to
be more effective.
It just doesn't need
to publish those.
What it needs to do is to go
along to the regulator and say,
we have these two
trials which show
that the drug is more
effective than a placebo.
Can we have a license
to market it, please?
>>Now, these are samples taken
from manufacturers' batches
of insulin and antibiotic drugs.
We test them for purity and
potency before they're sold.
Of course, new drugs
are always coming along.
And we make sure that
they've been tested and found
to be safe before they're
put on the market.
>>The doctors will
tell you that the drugs
have been trialed and tested.
But what you have to realize
when you take a new drug
is that you're
essentially embarking
on an uncontrolled experiment.
The drugs will only
have been tested
for the purposes of getting
their license on maybe at most
a few thousand people.
And they are then going
to be given to, literally,
to millions.
And within those
millions of people,
there's going to be an
enormous range of the way
that their systems work, the way
that they react to the drugs,
and so people are going
to have side effects.
There's also the
fact that the problem
that most people
in the West face
are not really acute
disorders, which medicine
is very good at dealing with,
but they're chronic disorders.
They are disorders like
depression, diabetes, heart,
arthritis, and so on.
They are things
which don't kill you,
but they just make
you rather miserable
and feel rather
terrible, and they
go on for a long period of time.
And these are the
kind of conditions
that all of the drugs
are targeted at,
but they are the conditions that
drugs don't treat very well.
>>Short term, some of
them are very lifesaving.
You need to have them.
Some of the corticosteroids,
some of the other things
that everybody says no, no, no--
short-term lifesaving, fine.
Antibiotic, short-term
life saving, no problem.
I abhor having patients on
any long-term medication.
And there's almost no
medication in the world
you can't get patients off of.
>>The perfect drug from the
point of view of a drug company
is one, first of all,
that doesn't kill people.
Because people need to take the
drug for a long period of time
in order for it
to be profitable.
Secondly, are they the best
way to treat everything
from the start?
And the answer would seem
very clearly to be not.
And so for a lot of
the chronic conditions,
it seems to make a lot
of sense to start off
by doing what you can
with non-drug approaches,
firstly because they are
very unlikely to have
the same range of side
effects, and secondly
because in a number of cases,
it looks as though they
have a better chance of
tackling the underlying problem
rather than simply
dealing with the symptoms.
>>Dr. Abram Hoffer
worked with Bill W,
the founder of
Alcoholics Anonymous.
And Bill W and Abram
became good friends.
Bill W suffered from
severe depression.
Abrams said, you should
take some niacin.
He suggested 3,000
milligrams of niacin a day.
That was the end of
Bill W's depression.
Bill W then suggested
to people that
were alcoholic, why don't
you try taking niacin
and see if it helps
your depression, see
if it helps your alcoholism?
And the majority of the
people that tried the niacin
had great improvement.
So Bill W, founder of
Alcoholics Anonymous,
wanted AA to use niacin
and vitamin therapy.
But AA, which had
already been infiltrated,
I would say is a good word,
by the medical profession,
rejected that.
So to this day,
Alcoholics Anonymous
focuses on many laudable steps
that alcoholics can and should
do to stop drinking, but it does
not recommend vitamin therapy.
>>At the time, when
there was concern--
a growing concern
about the issue
of whether the antidepressant
SSRI drugs were causing
suicide, and there had been a
few campaigners around about
2000 who had been saying
that there were problems
with these drugs and the
regulatory authorities
and the drug companies
had been denying it.
>>We did a whole study
on those school shootings
over in America, and we studied
a number of these incidents.
And in most cases--
in most cases--
the shooter is either
on or withdrawing
from these types of psychiatric
medications at the time
that they commit these offenses.
And yet none of this stuff
really comes out in the trials
at all.
>>And an American researcher
came up with the fact
that Prozac, which was of course
the brand leader at the time,
was about to come off patent.
And so they wondered whether
there was a new drug coming up.
And they did some research, and
they found indeed there was.
It was a thing called
Prozac R, and there
had been some tinkering with
the molecular structure of it.
And in order to
produce a new drug,
you have to say what the
improvements are going to be.
And in the patent
application for Prozac R,
it said "will not cause the
suicidal thoughts and feelings
which are associated
with the existing drug,"
precisely the thing that the
drug company had been denying
was going on for
the past 10 years.
>>I worked with a lady once
who was suicidally depressed.
She lived at home
with her family.
She was in her
50s, and she spent
all day sitting in a
corner, face to the corner.
She wouldn't talk to anyone.
She wouldn't eat with anyone.
She was totally uncommunicative.
She was under the care
of a psychiatrist,
of course, as she should be.
And the psychiatrist
had her on a variety
of medications, which
you would expect.
The family was wondering
about nutrition.
And I mentioned to them about
Dr. Hoffer's work with niacin.
And they wondered how
much she needed to take.
And this person was
very seriously ill.
And I mentioned that
Dr. Hoffer normally
gave about 3,000
milligrams a day of niacin,
but some people need a lot more,
especially very sick people.
And they should give her as much
as it takes to make her better.
Well, they figured
they could do that.
So at 11,500 milligrams
of niacin a day,
she was sitting at the
table and talking to them
like nothing had happened.
So they went to
the psychiatrist,
showed the psychiatrist
this recovered person,
and the psychiatrist
said, well, I
don't think you should
take all that niacin.
It might be harmful.
So they stopped
giving her the niacin,
and she was back in the corner.
Safety with niacin?
There's not one death from
niacin per year on average.
There have been one
or two attributed
over the last 15 or 20
years, but there's not even
one death per year from niacin.
And how many people
that are suicidally
depressed actually go
and end their lives?
Two handfuls of cashews give
you the therapeutic equivalent
of a prescription
dose of Prozac.
Now, everyone then says,
oh two handfuls of cashews,
isn't that fattening?
And my point is, do you care?
Do you want to get
over the depression?
We're having a difficult time
accepting a simple therapy.
Here's what you can do.
If someone is depressed,
the first thing they can do
is know that it's
OK to be depressed.
If you're malnourished,
you should be depressed.
So don't do that anymore.
Go and eat good food.
>>What's going on in
the mind and the brain,
whatever the mind
is, can be influenced
by the nutrients and
chemicals going into it
and what is happening as well.
This is not to say that
psychological treatments aren't
important.
They are.
But you can't get anywhere
with a patient who's
got psychological and
psychiatric symptomatology
if their brain is
hungry, if it's starved,
or if it's poisoned.
There's a fact of
life in medicine
that if I take your
bone and measure it,
you got 5,000 times
more lead in it
than you would have been if you
had been an Egyptian Pharaoh.
If I take some fat
samples, you've
still got DDT, DDE, and
DDD in your fat samples
even though DDT has been
banned a long time ago as well
as a whole range
of other chemicals.
But does anybody want
to hear about that?
No.
>>And that has not
yet registered.
Or if it has, doctors
simply refuse to do it.
Because everything
they do is toxic.
Every drug they use--
prescription drugs,
over the counter drugs, all
drugs are liver toxic bar none.
>>Something like 79
million Americans
are getting mercury fillings
put in their mouths every day
right now.
Legally, we're not supposed
to say they're toxic,
so I never mention
that to patients.
But for a documentary, are they?
You betcha.
>>If I look at your brain
and do a brain biopsy,
I'll find a large amount
of mercury in your system
if you've had amalgam
fillings put in your mouth.
What makes amalgam or
mercury so much safer
when you put it into
a tooth compared
to when it's sitting
on a dentist's tray?
It's highly toxic.
And the dentist has
to handle it as one
of the most toxic
substances known to man.
But it's made safe when it's
put into your tooth, which
is nonsense.
>>Suffice it to say that if
you have it in your mouth,
you're being poisoned by it.
End of story.
>>These toxins, when you stop
pushing them into the system,
start to come out.
And actually, if you now
only change your diet
to the point of
eating all organic,
you are releasing
all these poisons.
They go into the bloodstream
and into the liver.
And unless you help the
liver get rid of it,
you can cause new damage.
It's a mistake.
It's a half a therapy.
The other half of the
therapy is detoxify.
>>Colonics, enemas, things
that help to move stuff out,
herbs that help to
move things out,
water that helps to
move things out-- these
are critical factors in
the cleansing equation
because our body's primary
method of cleansing
and detoxification is
through the bowels.
>>We have to get the
toxins out to even allow
the nutrients to get
into the tissues.
You can't get them in there
if they're full of poisons.
You can't get two
things into one space.
>>The basic idea is
you've got to start
by doing the simplest thing
ever, which is upon rising,
drink lots of water.
As simple as that
is, it's amazing
how few people actually do that.
Drink a liter, two
liters of water
before you have any
food, before you
have any coffee, before
whatever-- tea, whatever you
start your morning
with, just drink water
and then begin your day.
What we notice first
is initially boom,
things flow out.
My cousin lost 150 pounds
in about an 18-month period
on our program: raw,
organic natural foods
across the selection that
we've been talking about.
And he actually moved all
that toxicity out of his body
through his bowels.
Twelve bowel movements a day.
One day he lost 15
pounds in one day.
That is really interesting,
but really difficult
to talk about to
the general public.
Because when we
think of weight loss,
we think we're going to work
out and covert it into muscle
and sweat it off, but
actually, in this day
and age with the toxicity
that's in the average fat cell
of the average person, you don't
want to move that stuff out
through your skin.
You want to get it out
through your bowels
as quickly as possible.
>>The big problem
with cancer research
is that the public is led
to believe that the cancer
breakthrough is around
the next corner.
Look at any
newspaper most weeks,
and there will be a story
in there: new cancer cure.
And yet, when you
stand back and look
at what's actually happening,
your relatives continue to die.
My relatives continue to die.
The cancer
breakthrough turns out
to be just another drug
that causes cancer.
Because most of these chemos
are themselves carcinogens.
That's the whole point.
These are cell toxins.
They're designed to poison tumor
cells so they don't replicate.
So the big mistake
that's happening here
is that the cancer
industry is continuing
to view the tumor as
the cancer, and we
know the tumor is
not the cancer.
Because if the tumor
were the cancer,
that would mean that we
could cut the tumors out
of the human body and they
would never grow back.
And we know that
that's not true.
We know these tumors
can and do grow back.
And the reason they grow
back is you have not
corrected the underlying
metabolic process.
>>Cancer is one of the most
deadly and elusive enemies
ever faced by man.
Once cancerous cells
appear, they soon
develop into a
clump of tissue that
lives at the expense
of the entire body.
This tissue crowds
and robs nourishment
from other cells,
tissues, or organs.
>>There's a lot of
people that are beginning
to realize that conventional
medicine just does not work.
The AMA themselves
said that for cancer,
specifically, independent of
the stage that the patient comes
to the doctor's office, whether
it's stage one or four-- most
cancers are divided
into four stages--
independent of the stage that
the patient first arrives,
less than 30% survive five
years using chemo, surgery,
or radiation.
That means that more
than 70% of them die.
That is just not acceptable.
>>What chance do I
really have, Doctor?
>>Mr. Marshall, I have
no desire to mislead you.
I'm sure you realize that
recovery is not a sure thing.
But if we can go through
surgery as quickly as possible,
I believe you have a
good chance of recovery.
>>We have the precedent
set by Dr. Max Gerson back
in the 1930s and '40s who showed
that vitamins, and especially
large quantities
of fresh vegetable
juices and organic foods,
would help to reverse cancer.
And Gerson had about
a 50% cure rate
with terminally ill patients.
That's extremely high.
With malignant melanoma, the
Gerson therapy is spectacular.
That in itself is enough reason
for every physician to learn
about the Gerson
therapy, but they don't.
Medical school does not talk
about these alternatives.
>>Normal human body
has powerful defenses
to the point where
cancer is impossible.
The human body has such
powerful defenses that a normal,
healthy body cannot, will not
develop cancer or any other
chronic disease for that matter.
Not only that, but with a good,
healthy, normal, rich, organic
food, you can reverse
these diseases.
And that's what we do.
>>So if you want to reverse
cancer, what you've really
got to do is get in there and
wreck the internal environment
the cancer depends
upon to thrive.
And that's how these
clinics are doing it.
What they're not
doing is loading
loads of chemotherapy and
radiation and toxicity
into the body to create more
problems for the immune system,
which is already
weakened and vulnerable.
That's why the person
has got cancer.
And as G. Edward
Griffin says, if you
want to give somebody cancer,
give them chemotherapy.
Because those chemotherapies
are themselves
carcinogens most of the time.
I receive thousands
of phone calls a year,
and not a few of
those are coming
from people who went
through all the best
medicine that hospitals
could give them,
and the tumors
kept growing back.
And when they said, why do I
keep getting this cancer back,
the doctor said, we don't know.
In fact, we don't really
know what causes cancer.
We've known for 60 years.
In fact, we've known
since Professor John
Beard of Edinburgh University
wrote his thesis in 1904
that cancer is a healing process
that hasn't switched off.
But you see, again,
it comes back
to-- it's not that the drug
industry is selectively
lying to people, they're just
not covering the issues the way
they should be covering it.
A classic example
is the way they've
manipulated the survival rates.
The word survive-- you'll hear
an advert which says, well,
now we're-- give
to this charity,
we are now seeing that 80%
of women are surviving breast
cancer.
And what they've done is
redefined the word "survive"
to mean only five years
after initial treatment.
So take my aunt.
My aunt got cancer.
She is forever immortalized
as a cancer survivor
because she survived
the five years,
but she died six months later.
So she's cured and dead.
>>In 1972, our
then-president Nixon
stated that, if we throw enough
money at this cancer problem,
we'll solve it.
We were able to put
a man on the moon,
and we ought to be able
to solve the problem.
>>Together, we can hardly fail.
For there is no force on Earth
to match the will and spirit
of the people of America.
>>And in 1972, he agreed to
make a great deal of money
available.
That year, 220,000
Americans died of cancer.
Exactly 25 years later, USA
Today, the big newspaper--
I think it was
also in Newsweek--
published the figures,
what actually did happen.
What happened was
the US government,
us taxpayers, put out over $39
billion US dollars for research
on cancer.
The result was 25
years later in 1996,
560,000 people died of
cancer-- more than double.
>>The five year or
better survival rate
for almost all
forms of cancer is
unchanged for the
last four decades.
That's pretty sad.
>>Cancer remains man's number
two killer, second only
to heart disease.
Little wonder that a victim
of cancer like Mr. Marshall
feels depressed.
>>You see, the thing
about a war-- and this
is a cancer war-- wars
are only profitable when
you're fighting them.
Let's face it-- if
cancer disappeared
tomorrow, millions of people
would have to retrain.
This is a $200 billion
a year industry
that you're going to have to
dismantle if the truth ever
came out about what
we would need to do.
>>A lot of people ask,
why am I in Mexico?
That's precisely why.
I'm an American citizen.
I live in San Diego.
My kids went to school here.
I would love to be able to
do what I believe is correct.
And the country of my birth,
my patients, a lot of them
come from the US.
They would like to be able to
do what is, in their opinion,
a good program to cure
their disease problem.
And the countries
of their birth,
whether it be
Austrailia, whether it
be New Zealand, whether it
be Canada, England, the US,
it doesn't matter.
Unfortunately, you can't get
the health care laws changed.
>>The war against
cancer has been
fought with one arm
behind the back.
And I would never
go into the ring
with the heavyweight
champion of the world
and fight with one arm.
And yet by restricting
cancer research and cancer
treatment to basically drug,
surgery, radiation approaches
and not considering
nutrition seriously,
we've done a terrible
disservice to all these people.
>>So it's not that
people are lying.
It's not that everybody who
works in the cancer industry
is somehow an evil
and wicked person.
What we look at here is we're
seeing that a lot of people
are just doing what
they believe is best.
You can be sincere, and
you can be sincerely wrong.
>>And the good news is
we can change that today.
One of the few free
choices a person has
is what they will
or will not eat.
>>So we have to
make sure that we
are looking at doing
everything possible to build
the body up, not break it down.
That makes all the sense
in the world, doesn't it?
>>You should do everything
you possibly can
and stack the deck
in your favor.
And that means building the
immune system nutritionally
and using vitamins to help
the body fight the disease.
Because being malnourished can't
possibly help you beat cancer.
>>In males, the digestive
tract is most frequently
afflicted with cancer.
>>Colon cancer is a
good place to start,
because it's not
very easy to treat.
Colon cancer is a
very serious disease.
And I would say that it's
100% preventable by having
a high fiber diet
and avoiding things
that we know that
aggravate cancer,
such as certain additives,
food preservatives,
environmental chemicals.
They could be a cause of
any number of cancers.
>>The Japanese who
live in Japan and eat
the standard Japanese
diet and live
the standard Japanese lifestyle
have the lowest incidence
of cancer in the world.
And it's believed
that the low incidence
is due to the high intake of
seafood, including fish and sea
vegetables.
With that diet, there
is a high intake
of trace elements like selenium,
and zinc, and germanium,
and a whole range of other
anti-cancer trace elements.
There's also high intake
of the omega 3 fish oils,
which are protective as well,
not only for cancers but heart
disease and Alzheimer's.
And they also drink green tea.
And green tea has got
a range of chemicals
that protect us against cancer
as well, protect our cells
and our genes and so on.
>>In the female, cancers of
the breast and the uterus
are the most prevalent.
>>You take a Japanese
woman from Japan,
where the incidence of
breast cancer is very low,
and transplant her into America,
and she changes her lifestyle,
the incidence of cancer
then starts creeping up
to that of the American woman,
which is around about 13% now.
So 13% of females in America
will get cancer of the breast.
Japanese are less than 1%.
>>We doctors are
improving our techniques.
No individual is alone in
the fight against cancer.
Research workers are finding and
reporting more and more facts.
We will conquer cancer.
>>When we look at high doses of
vitamin C given intravenously
as an actual
chemotherapeutic agent,
we have wonderful,
uplifting news
for every cancer
patient in the world.
And it's easy and
safe-- and did I
say inexpensive-- to have
a physician give an IV.
You just have to insist on it.
I believe in the next 10 years,
this will become more accepted.
But people with cancer
can't afford to wait.
And the ones that
already did have
been grossly mistreated
by the medical profession
and by the government that
supposedly is supposed
to encourage free
research and development
of all possibilities.
So when you come along and
say, instead of treating cancer
with chemotherapy, you can give
intravenous vitamin C, 30, 60,
100,000 milligrams a day
directly into the bloodstream,
and that will kill cancer cells.
Vitamin C at that high
dose is selectively
toxic to cancer cells.
And that's exactly
what chemotherapy is.
But with vitamin C, there's
no damage to healthy cells.
And people don't get nauseous.
They don't lose their hair.
All they do is get better.
>>We pushed the dose up
to 40,000 milligrams,
50,000 milligrams,
60,000 milligrams.
We pushed the dose up
to 100,000 milligrams.
We even went to
200,000 milligrams.
And we nearly got to a quarter
of a kilo IV in 24 hours.
No adverse events, no adverse
side effects apart from thirst
and feeling a bit
woozy in the head.
That's with huge amounts of
vitamin C, the substances that
were meant to cause
kidney stones if you
took 100 milligrams.
>>Now, we wonder, why
isn't this being done?
Because the next assumption
is, if this were so good,
my doctor would
already know about it.
If this were so good, it
would be on television.
If this were so good, it would
be taught in medical school.
And that's another one
of those assumptions.
Why would you want to
teach about vitamins
in medical school?
Why would medical doctors who
studied medicine and practiced
medicine and are heavily funded
by pharmaceutical companies,
why would they go and
look into vitamins?
The pharmaceutical companies are
not going to advocate vitamins.
That's not going to work.
The government
doesn't know anything
that it isn't told by the
pharmaceutical companies
and other lobbies, and
by medical lobbies.
The people don't know, because
they had an education that
never had the word
orthomolecular in it.
Dr. Hugh Riordan said
that orthomolecular,
which is therapeutic nutrition,
orthomolecular medicine,
is not the answer to
any question posed
in medical school.
So what you're set here
with is two divergent views
on health care.
And whenever you
have that, you have
what we are experiencing
today: an impossible dichotomy.
When you talk to people
about using high dose vitamin
C for cancer, and
then you tell them
that it's been
heavily tested-- even
the National
Institutes of Health
are showing that
this is working.
Dr. Riordan's team has been
doing this for 25 years or more
now.
I've seen for 30 years
that high doses of vitamins
greatly improve a cancer
patient's quality of life
and greatly improve a cancer
patient's length of life.
And there's many, many places
in the literature where
you can look and find support
for high dose nutrient therapy
to arrest or even
reverse cancer.
It's an impossible question.
Why isn't it being done?
And the answer, of course, is
until enough people complain,
it won't be done.
But if everyone demands
nutritional therapy,
it will change.
Right now, if you want
nutritional therapy
and you go to your
doctor and ask for it,
it's sort of like ordering chow
mein in a French restaurant.
It's not on the menu, and they
don't know how to make it.
And you're not going to get it.
>>You have a right to
self care and self help.
And we need to, again, teach
the regulators, the politicians,
the doctors, and get to the
universities and the people
training in medicine
to understand
that there are plants with
anti-cancer properties.
There are plans with anti-nausea
and anti-vomiting properties.
There are plants that
will help with rashes.
There are plants that will help
with headaches and tiredness
that occur as a result
of chemotherapy.
>>Mom, listen.
>>I'm sure that those
government people
are experts at their work.
But ever since I've been
taking Mr. Ka'humana's tea,
I've felt simply wonderful.
Why, I never knew that a
remedy could be so effective.
Why, I haven't been having
my usual attacks at all.
Now, why is that if it isn't
because of Mr. Ka'humana's tea?
>>What if they gave everyone in
America free health insurance
and no one needed it.
There's a lot of debate over how
we should finance and change,
provide health care to
everyone in the United States.
Most civilized countries
do have a national program
of health care
guaranteeing health
care for pretty much everybody.
United States is
conspicuously absent.
We have 30, maybe
40 million people
that are uninsured
in the United States.
That's getting some attention,
as it rightly should.
But is the solution
to simply give them
access to a system that
doesn't work very well?
Or would it be a good idea to
teach them how to be healthy?
I think they need education
and not medication.
>>People need to be made
aware of the great benefit
of improving their health
if they've got a cancer
or whatever disease
that they've got.
>>We are at a stage
now where there's
a major change in what's
happening with medicine, which
is that medicine no longer has
a lock on all the information.
The internet has changed that.
>>And as more and more
and more of our population
start taking their health
into their own hands,
there's going to be even
more and more of a change.
It can't go on the way it is.
The system right now
is falling apart.
>>We must make nutrition the
primary prevention strategy
for the population.
And we have as
zealous on nutrition
as we are, apparently,
on global warming.
What we need to be able to
do is to persuade the public
that you are what you eat,
food can change your mood,
that you are everything you
have ever done to yourself,
and the choices
you make directly
affect the outcome of your life.
And it might be easy
enough to forget that
right now when you're 21 years
old and very fit and healthy
eating badly.
But it all looks a
lot different when
you get into your
40s, 50s, and 60s
and start to go down with a
serious degenerative illness.
>>We've still got a
health system which really
is a disease care
system and-- dominated
by doctors, and
hospitals, pathologists,
and pharmacologists.
And that sort of a system is
going to look after itself.
It wants more work, and
it's truly not interested
in reducing the amount
of illness and disease.
The more work they get,
the more profit there is.
So that's part of
the medical industry.
And it does need to be there.
It's very, very important.
>>The medical industry does
get a lot of things right.
Infant survivability
at birth, brilliant.
ANE trauma medicine, brilliant.
God forbid you get
smashed up on a motorway
and they have to put
you back together again.
They're very good at doing that.
Disease, pathetic.
>>The medical
profession has it wrong.
Even the medical schools
that offer nutrition
do not offer megadose nutrition.
Even the medical
schools that have
courses in alternative medicine
are not really focusing on it.
I believe they're
just giving it a nod.
The answer is for
every person to realize
that if you want
something done right,
you have to do it yourself.
You have to read.
You have to dig.
You have to want to
have this information.
And of course, I
might add, you have
to be willing to actually
take the vitamins
and actually juice
the vegetables.
You have to walk the walk.
>>And anybody who's
watching this right now
has, at some level,
made a choice
that they want to
do something that
is going to improve their
lives, their family's
lives, their kids' lives, and
the life of the planet itself,
and the life of all the
plants and everything.
If that is our choice,
then our food choices
must correlate with that.
Because if you've
ever flown in a plane
and you look out the
window of the plane
and you see what's down
there, you see it's all farms.
The primary way that we're
interacting with our planet
is through agriculture.
And if we change our food
choices, we change agriculture.
And all of a sudden, we
shift away from, for example,
corn, wheat, soy diets
over to superfood diets
and organic diets
and raw food diets,
and we shift the whole
way that we literally
interact with the planet.
The number one thing
we're doing on this planet
is growing things.
In spite of all the
chemical controlled,
giant agricultural businesses,
we're still growing stuff.
We could grow genetically
modified corn,
or we could grow the most
extraordinary goji berries
in the world.
>>There is a lot more
turning to alternatives.
Because what's being done
beforehand doesn't work.
It just doesn't work.
>>When I look at
cancer rates going up,
heart disease going
up, stroke going up,
Alzheimer's and senile dementia
and cognitive impairment
going up-- a change is due.
Clearly, the old
ways aren't working.
And what we need to do is
we need a fresh paradigm,
and we need to go
back to basics.
And basics is all
about going back
to look at these
cultures who don't
get these problems
in the same way
that if you want to
be a millionaire,
go talk to a millionaire.
Don't talk to the guy down
the pub still recovering
from the last
golden opportunity.
Go find these people who are
living 100 years routinely
without cancer, heart
disease, and see
if you can figure out
how they're doing it.
And we've done that work.
We've done that science.
It's been done over
the last 100 years,
and it's been
completely ignored.
>>The very first course I
ever taught was in 1976,
and it was called Forgotten
Research In Medicine.
And I'm doing the same
thing to this day.
>>I feel very
strongly that the best
doctor in the world, the best
nutritionist in the world,
is you.
You actually have
everything inside you,
all the equipment
necessary, to feel
if something is
right for you or not.
>>The good news is that people
are not a bunch of dummies.
Abraham Lincoln expressed
that when he said,
you can fool some of the
people all of the time and all
of the people some
of the time, but you
can't fool all of the
people all of the time.
And that's why over
half of the population
now takes vitamins even
though most doctors would
say that it's really
not necessary.
We have a public that's
catching on quicker
than the medical professions.
In a way, it's sad.
But in a way, it's great.
People should stop
being patients
and start being people.
Why not be healthy and happy?
Why not?
You change your life.
You do some exercise.
You eat right.
You feel better.
All right, that's good.
You look better.
You live longer.
That's good.
You save money.
And you have the
enormous satisfaction
of having done it yourself.
People think, I don't
have a medical education.
I can't know this.
Oh, please.
How complicated is it to eat
right and drink vegetable
juices and exercise?
You don't need any
degree to know that.
It's too simple to work.
It's cheap.
It's simple.
It's safe.
It's effective.
The biggest single reason
why people aren't doing this
is that it requires
taking responsibility.
And that is the only way out.
>>When we choose raw,
organic, plant-based foods,
we take our power
back and we decide
that we are going
to have quality,
and that we are not going
to suffer from some 50
ingredients that are in there
of chemicals we never even
heard of before.
I am not a big advocate
of preaching vegetarianism
to everybody or veganism
or even raw food-ism.
But we do know for
a fact that an 80%
raw, organic,
plant-based diet that
covers all the different facets
of fruits, vegetables, nuts,
seeds, seaweed, sprouts,
grasses, superfoods, and herbs
is a massively valuable part
of a healthy and wonderfully
abundant lifestyle.
>>There is no magic bullet.
There is no monotherapy that
cures cancer, that cures
heart disease.
But there is a lifestyle
change that prevents, arrests,
and reverses serious
chronic disease.
>>The solutions are here.
They've always been here.
The only thing that's left
is just the education.
Because I'm convinced
that once people
know what the solution
is, they'll act on it.
They will decide,
yep, we're doing it.